hi everyone welcome to the ipfs core
implementations weekly sync for monday
the 23rd of november 2020 we're going to
go through our high priority initiatives
now other initiatives
q a parking lot question time answer
time
all the fun things it's going gonna be
amazing
without further ado let's start with the
high priority initiative so upcoming and
ship releases
who can talk about this
yes go ipfs 0.8 the rc we're hoping
to maybe land it this week um but with
holidays in the u.s
landing later this week it will likely
push
to uh next week and we just have a few
things that we need to finish up that we
will talk about shortly for pinning
services
amazing
anything else on releases
okay printing services
um i'd say the pin remote
commands which is like six commands for
pins and then managing server
cleaning services are nearly ready for
this candidate one so it should not be
blocking when you guys are ready for
uh cutting rc1 um i've added a
oh yeah i made the mistake so pin remote
service ls with pin count
when you pass that parameter it will
test the end point
and try to fetch how many pins in each
status you got like
uh queued pinning paint and failed
so that acts both as a quick
validation of the service you've added
but also it will be used by
web ui when in our final end-to-end
integration
um the ci is still not green but
we are working on a fix to the pinning
service
we use on the ci to be green
so hopefully it will align nicely with
the plan for
rc to land this week or next week
and um http client
for which is used by web ui and the js
land uh
it the adding support for pin remote
commands is
working progress i believe iraq is
attacking that one
uh yeah i i was just sending items no
um so i worked on uh
uh jazz mock pinning service because
that lets you
integrate it to the go ipfs so you can
test things out
i'll be publishing it sometime today
it's not feature complete but it has
most of it
in there already then i'll be publishing
some of the changes to the
draft prs that we have for js http
client
and once i also today and this week i'll
be working on
completing the mock server implement
services implementation to be feature
complete and once it's there i'll try to
integrate it into the
gshtp client tests so we can run against
it
hopefully this week
that's it neato
uh next up is local penny
all right that's uh nearly ready for rc
one
uh all that we're waiting on is a couple
decisions minor implementation decisions
concerning things like
encoding whether to use multi-base or
not so there's uh just a matter of
making sure this is
going to be ready for any future changes
and do we need to do anything to future
proof it or
is it good so once those decisions have
been made
then everything should be ready to uh
move along in terms of
getting that uh that implementation in
as well as make sure the migrations
are tested with the latest and co-ipfs
is
uh depending on on the appropriate
version of the pinner
so um that's all we're waiting for at
this point
cool next up is secio removable
yeah so last week that got removed from
the bootstrap notes so we are
doing some monitoring on the network now
to see how things go
um to assess the situation but we are in
uh
watch watch and observe mode
so far so good
uh next up is just improved
discoverability and connectivity
uh yes so the auto relay example was
merged last week
and with that all the auto relay stuff
is now complete
uh in the rendezvous front
uh i started last week addressing
jacob's review we also had
a call to a line on uh some stuff on on
the review
uh and so with that i i already did some
stuff i
basically we decided to separate the
client in the server
and with that we aimed to move the
the client part to the live hp card uh
then i also added the os protection
for the register and i'm currently
working on a docker compose setup with
also
my sql so
basically i'm working on creating the
database model and queries so that we
don't have
everything in memory and we basically
store everything in my sql database and
this week i will continue on that and
also
i need to work on improving the garbage
collector
uh as as i will change how we
currently deal with the data
uh and then uh we also need to align
with the
library to be regarding message signing
that's one of the things that
me and jacob discussed and eventually it
will make sense to add
message shining in the same way as we
have for pub sub but it's currently not
part of part of the spec
so yeah i also create an issue for that
and i
aim to eventually get the signing
message as well
and that's it
good stuff uh next up is bi-directional
streaming and streaming errors in the
browser
um so i have marked the pr as ready for
a review
uh it has implementations of the four
different types of grpc web messages
so unary client streaming server
streaming and bi-directional streaming
um i have like documented the protocol
that it uses because it's
not made up but it's not part of the
spec because the spec doesn't allow for
web sockets
but it is based on other people's
implementation so
plug it out of thin air anyway it's all
there it's documented
um along with a rough plan of how we can
get into go ipvs as well so i'd love
some
uh eyeballs from the go guys as well
and go people not just guys when all
guys
um i'd love some input from people
across the ecosystem because ultimately
this should really go into
ipfs as well um so we can have
like just awesome stuff happening in the
browser with proper full duplex streams
everywhere
um that would be really helpful i've
listed out what i think are all the
design decisions that have been made
so if people are completely mortally
offended by
things that have happened please do
shout in the pr and we can
reach some kind of agreement yep that is
it
that is it for libraries initiatives
next up are the other initiatives
so file add progress in web ui
no update itself
um so yeah no updates
uh did you manage to integrate the
progress stuff then is it still to do
i've been mostly doing the pinning
services stuff
okay i'll get to that after i'm done
with spinning services
cool fair enough uh oh i don't know mute
yeah
next up is typescript integration for
jsrfs i'll also
uh hugo has an update as well though
yeah so we have support now for in
asia for the the types
generating the types running the type
checker and
building the documentation um building
the documentation is still kind of
experimental because it's using a
workaround that mostly works
on the smaller ripples but on the bigger
ones like jsrpfs
it's harder to to get some useful
output from that but false for the
smaller ones it works
nicely some prs on the multi-ash
motivators are already
ready cid is also ready
and i'm using the old ts
tracking issue to track this
this new work uh and also like
um the monoreport js ibfs monorepo
needs some work on the types we have a
new proposal
um the that's wrote uh
that basically um describes a bunch of
stuff that we've been talking about
um and yeah that's it's a little bit
more complicated that repo because
we need to reuse types in multiple
multiple packages so we need to organize
stuff better
but you can read all about it in the
proposal yeah that's it
awesome
uh next up is the use of shared node
from service worker
correctly anything
ah sorry uh what was it
a service worker oh yeah i was
actually trying to figure out if i need
to do there anything or is that
if it was ready uh but it seems there's
one issue
that needs to be if i'm reading the pr
correctly
uh yeah so i'll try to address this week
and hopefully run it
nice then we can get in uh badger 2
support
no update i mean
extended i i keep checking every
i hit refresh and a few times a day no
no i haven't seen any announcements
either about when they're going to
release that but
hopefully know something end of the year
happy christmas okay uh
not traversal
it's me um yeah so arch is working
on um improving
our dialability statistics so we started
adding some stuff
to hydro nodes so that as we observe
traffic going through we
start pinging people and just trying to
get a better idea of what dialability
looks like on the network so that we can
use that
for our success criteria when we
implement full natural reversal
and then he is working on improving some
issues with autonat
being a little bit flaky in terms of
observed addresses
so working on stability for that as that
will be important
for hole punching
more radical uh next up is the unix
versus v 1.5 and go ipfs
um i don't think there's been any
movement on this since last week
though i did put a demo repo together
that lets um
our fantastic contributor uh run the js
ipfs interface test suite
um against arbitrary go ipvs without
having to
jump through lots of hoops and
that should help there
no update apart from that and next up is
go ipfs gc improvements
uh uh still working on design i've
actually had a number of uh discussions
about
how we can maybe use some of the
existing infrastructure for doing more
intelligent uh
garbage collection we have art cache and
bloom filter and things like that that
we don't want to
uh duplicate if we don't need to if
there's any functionality
uh that we can use that's already
existing
so i'm just trying to we're just i'm
just in discussions at this point
haven't had any solid answers as to
what we're going to do with how we're
going to modify those for the
for our caching so we're into design
discussions
that's the short end of the answer
good stuff uh that brings us to the end
of the other initiatives
um so next up is design review proposals
do you want to propose something for
design review
i mean i guess sort of the grpc web
over websocket stuff that i've been
doing needs some kind of design review
so if you would like to get involved do
just comment on the pr
and yeah tell me what you like what you
don't like
be kind that kind of thing
if there's nothing else this is probably
a good
point for chris's thing on
graph sync integration hey guys i just
put something in there but i've been
working
on uh the javascript implementation of
graphsync
and uh mikhail rogers asked me to join
this call to discuss
a possible integration point with js
ipfs as i think you guys are making some
plans for that
next year or something so i'm here to
answer any questions or discuss it just
don't know exactly how to proceed
a link to the repo please yep
it's um still in progress so you're
happy to or you're welcome to look at it
um
but uh still working on a number of
things so
i think it's more about getting a
placeholder for the future
from an integration point just does a
quick
summary where i where i'm at right now
is um i can
issue a request to a responder
and i've validated that against the go
ipfs
and i did a prototype of a responder so
i think i've been working on most
recently is doing some validation
of the requests coming back to make sure
the
bad actor responder doesn't send me bad
stuff
and i think i'm getting pretty close to
putting that all together um
and then i'll take the prototype
respondent and grade that into your
questions i think i'll be in pretty good
shape
by the end of december um that's what
i'm expecting
uh is this something that we need to
detect based
on nodes some peers would have graphs
and others don't or
is there something that just replaces
current bit swap
well in go ipfs
it they have the responder turned on but
there's nothing that ever makes a
request
out so within go ipfs is kind of a
it you can't enable it to replace
bitswap all you can do is
enable responder to provide new way of
accessing data
um and i think you know if we took this
i think one big question
is okay so if we integrate with jsipfs
um
what do we want to do with it do we want
to do just like what go ipfs does and
make it
act as a responder in case request comes
in do you want to have a mode where
um it can actually issue requests uh to
other nodes as like you said the bit
swap replacement
right because questions like that in
terms of what is exact functionality i
don't know if go ipfs is
graph sync has some road map or plan for
that but
um but yeah the exact way you can create
it is open
so thanks uh hannah and alex creepshanks
will be
coming back to ipfs early in december
um and some of the stuff they're looking
at is ipld
go prime integration and then also the
graph sync
bit swap story for go ipfs so i think
that would be really good
for um you and alex put cds to be able
to sync up with them
um in a dean so that we can all kind of
coordinate and and launch those things
all together
so i will okay i'll make a note
um for us to make sure that we sync up
probably sometime next month so we can
figure out what we want to do in
q1 sounds good
uh anything else for the design proposal
section
anyone blocked by anything anybody got
any asks
high throughput maximum productivity
very good
anybody got any questions
yep um the
libya2p update the simple beer to the
latest version
this is mostly related to the buffer
thing
so we can upgrade webpack to
five i think that was the last
one blocking us
simple appears just a a patch release
though right
uh yeah but the the thing is that we
were using a fork
because alex fixed something a while ago
and i think we didn't
switch back uh i will have a look and
uh pr the new simple peer version
okay i think something we may want to
look at next year is just
overhauling simple peer and actually
switching it over to use
like async iterators instead of like
right now it's still readable stream all
internally um
so we're losing losing some goodness
there
yeah that would be good
cool just ping me when you figure that
out or if you need
any help so i can update asia
cool next up is the parking lot
anything that hasn't been covered
already
incredible i guess that's it we're done
thanks for coming everyone uh please do
fill in your async updates people do
read them
it's very useful uh but yes i'd love to
see you all this has been the
core profess uh sorry the i professed
core infiniti's weekly sync for the 23rd
of november
uh stay safe out there things are
getting better
it's almost christmas see you on the
internet bye
bye